---
layout: default
title: Press
---

## Press

#### Byron Coley (_The Wire_, Issue 406 December 2017)

Writes about _A Year of Time_:

> Excellent cassette of homemade synth sounds from the Paris based
  Puech (who is, I gather, a scientist for his day job.) The music is
  broken into four suites (as befits a year) and is just great. While
  it owes certain ghost debts to English and German antecedents, its
  manner of tone bending is fresh and unique. There are space jiggles
  moments that recall early Gong at their zoniest, and layered blasts
  the make me think of prime Tangerine Dream, but for the most part
  this tape visits previously explored quadrants in new ways. Quite an
  accomplishment.

#### The Wire Tapper #44 (The Wire Issue 402)

The track “Badalisc” was included in [The Wire Magazine's CD
compilation](https://www.thewire.co.uk/audio/the-wire-tapper/the-wire-tapper-44)
included with Issue 402 (August 2017)

#### Georges McVicar (Stray Landings)

[Writes about _Threshold_](http://straylandings.co.uk/reviews/threshold):

> Hisolat records present Threshold, the debut 12” from Matthias
Puech. Puech’s work has a curious genealogy. The sounds that you hear
are from own-made modular synthesisers. Homemade electronics are of
course nothing new, from Aphex Twin’s recoded ZX81 to demented
circuit-bent Furbys. As long as engineers have designed hardware,
musicians have twisted them into instruments. Puech himself works by
programming chips and interfaces for modular synthesisers: rewiring
machines to rewire the brain.  This concept of ‘engineering’ also
features as the theme for much of the music. If these sounds are
‘about’ anything, then they are about the elegance of mathematics; the
strangeness of numbers. This ought to be unsurprising, since Puech
himself works as a research scientist by day. Yet Threshold displays a
sonic world that is neither steely nor robotic. These sounds are
living, breathing and growing. Listen, for example, to the churn of
bustling insects on ‘The Moth Song’, the earthy squelches of ‘Make or
Break’, or the call-and-response bird song of ‘Biome’.  The world
that Threshold presents is one where the natural and artificial are
symbiotic. It is a place not dissimilar to the one imagined by Richard
Brautigan in his 1967 prose on a technological utopia: “…a cybernetic
meadow where mammals and computers live together in mutually
programming harmony […] a cybernetic forest filled with pines and
electronics where deer stroll peacefully past computers as if they
were flowers with spinning blossoms…”

#### Boomkat

Writes about _Purlieu_:

> Panatype’s 4th physical release is an absorbing suite of electronica
  uniquely gelling ideas from 4th world ambience, Artificial
  Intelligence and Virtual Reality in four lushly detailed scenes.
  Conceived in pursuit of an aesthetic that seeks to “blur the line
  between field recordings and synthesis in order to render invented
  and impossible landscapes”, Puech’s first release for Panatype
  extends an immersive invitation to his singular, simulated
  dimensions. Using mostly modular synth, coupled with self-built
  devices, Puech plots out his imaginary world in electronic
  filigree. Blended with inspiration from the overgrowing chaos and
  mathematic logic of nature in a similar way to the Transflora
  project, his works are self-contained environments that could be
  considered different aspects of the same, alternate world. As with
  nature, Puech’s music can veer from modest beauty to barely
  controlled attacks on the senses, with his favoured, extended
  palette of machines enabling him to emulate the complex sounds of
  animals, albeit mutant ones that you may expect to be limned by
  Ballard or Google dream, especially when it all comes together in
  the side-long title track.
